# Parameter handler in ACAPs
This directory aims to clarify how parameter handling can be done in ACAP applications.

All Axis cameras come with a built in parameter handler, in this handler is a lot of configuration options for the camera. In earlier SDKs the standard way for third party applications to handle configuration was to add their parameters to the camera's parameter handler. This option was later removed (from the first release of SDK 4) but it was then reintroduced again. The parameter handler is available using e.g. the `param.cgi` VAPIX API or the `parhandclient` command using SSH. Here you can see and change both the camera's own parameters and your application's parameters. Many features have during the last few years been migrated to separate APIs instead of the parameter handler, this allows for better validation of values and synchronization of changes. The same is true for ACAPs.

Another option for configuration handling in ACAPs is to bundle your own config handler and save the state to the persistent flash in the `localdata` directory. In this case, you need to create APIs and configuration interfaces yourself as the `param.cgi` will not be aware of these.

## SDK 3 and libaxparameter
In the older SDKs, the `axparameter` library is included. This is a helper library that allows you to interface with the camera's parameter handler using a C API. Using this API you can both read and write parameters and you can create new parameters.

When specifying a list of parameters and their types / allowed values in the `manifest.json` file (or the `param.conf`) file, these parameters will be created for the ACAP and an autogenerated configuration page will be created for the application in the cameras web UI. Where this configuration page is found depends on the version of the cameras web (decided by the firmware version).

## SDK 4 and libaxparameter
When introducing Native SDK 4 Axis removed the `axparameter` library. This was however announced as [reintroduced in the SDK 4.13 release](https://www.axis.com/developer-community/news/acap-4-13) (but the library was added already in the 4.11 release).

## Parameter API in the ACAP Runtime
Note that this is stil in Beta release and might be changed.

The "ACAP Runtime" is an ACAP application that can be installed in the cameras. One of the many things it can do is to act as a proxy to access the camera's parameters from other applications using a gRPC protocol (which is supported in many languages). Also note that this API only gives you read access to the parameters, you cannot use it to create your own parameters for your application.

Axis describes the [ACAP Runtime here](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/acap-runtime) and have examples on reading parameters with it from [Python](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/acap-computer-vision-sdk-examples/tree/main/parameter-api-python) and from [C++](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/acap-computer-vision-sdk-examples/tree/main/parameter-api-cpp).